Breaking change page for `ColorScheme` change (#10274)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/new-color-scheme-roles.md

---
title: Introduce new ColorScheme roles for Material 3
description: >-
  'ColorScheme' introduces new color roles to
  better align with Material Design 3.
  The 'ColorScheme.fromSeed' method is also updated to
  support the newly added colors.
---

## Summary

New color roles in `ColorScheme` include seven tone-based surfaces and

> containers, and twelve accent colors for primary, secondary and tertiary groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
containers, and twelve accent colors for primary, secondary, and tertiary groups.
```

`ColorScheme.fromSeed` method now generates different values compared to the 
previous version, adapting to Material Design 3's guidelines.

## Background

The tone-based surface colors include: `surfaceBright`, `surfaceDim`,
`surfaceContainer`, `surfaceContainerLow`, `surfaceContainerLowest`,
`surfaceContainerHigh`, and `surfaceContainerHighest`. These changes help 
eliminate the use of widgets' `surfaceTintColor`, and replace the old 
opacity-based model which applied a tinted overlay on top of surfaces based 
on their elevation.  

The default `surfaceTintColor` for all widgets is now null and their default
background color is now based on the new tone-based surface colors.

`ColorScheme.fromSeed` has also been updated to use the latest algorithm from
the Material color utilities package. This change prevents the constructed 
`ColorScheme` from being too bright, even if the source color looks bright and
had a high chroma (contained little black, white, and shades of grey).

## Migration guide

The differences caused by the updated `ColorScheme.fromSeed` and the new color
roles should be small and acceptable. However, when providing a brighter

> seed color to `ColorScheme.fromSeed`, it may construct a relatively darker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
seed color to `ColorScheme.fromSeed`, it might construct a relatively darker
```

`schemeVariant: FromSeedVariant.fidelity` in `ColorScheme.fromSeed`. For 
example:

Code before migration:

```dart
ColorScheme.fromSeed(
    seedColor: Color(0xFF0000FF), // Bright blue
)
```

Code after migration:

```dart
ColorScheme.fromSeed(
    seedColor: Color(0xFF0000FF), // Bright blue
    schemeVariant: FromSeedVariant.fidelity,
)
```

The Material Design 3 removes 3 colors. To configure the appearance of the
material components, the `background` should be replaced with `surface`;
`onBackground` should be replaced with `onSurface`; `surfaceVariant` should be
migrated to `surfaceContainerHighest`.

Code before migration:

```dart
final ColorScheme colorScheme = ColorScheme();
MaterialApp(
  theme: ThemeData(
    //...
    colorScheme: colorScheme.copyWith(
      background: myColor1,
      onBackground: myColor2,
      surfaceVariant: myColor3,
    ),
  ),
  //...
)
```

Code after migration:

```dart
final ColorScheme colorScheme = ColorScheme();
MaterialApp(
  theme: ThemeData(
    //...
    colorScheme: colorScheme.copyWith(
      surface: myColor1,
      onSurface: myColor2,
      surfaceContainerHighest: myColor3,
    ),
  ),
  //...
)
```

> Custom components that used to look up the `ColorScheme.background`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom components that used to look up `ColorScheme.background`,
```

> `ColorScheme.onBackground` and `ColorScheme.surfaceVariant` can look up the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`ColorScheme.onBackground`, and `ColorScheme.surfaceVariant` can look up the
```

---
title: Introduce new `ColorScheme` roles for Material 3
description: >-

>   `ColorScheme` introduces new colors roles to better align with Material Design

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `ColorScheme` introduces new color roles to better align with Material Design
```

  3. `ColorScheme.fromSeed` method is also updated to support the newly added
  colors.
---

## Summary

New color roles in `ColorScheme` include seven tone-based surfaces and containers, alongside twelve accent color add-ons. This update deprecates three existing color roles: `background`, `onBackground`, and `surfaceVariant`. The `ColorScheme` constructed by the updated `ColorScheme.fromSeed` method now generates different values compared to the previous version, adapting to Material Design 3's guidelines.

## Background

The tone-based surface colors include: `surfaceBright`, `surfaceDim`,
`surfaceContainer`, `surfaceContainerLow`, `surfaceContainerLowest`,

> `surfaceContainerHigh`, and `surfaceContainerHighest`. These changes helps 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`surfaceContainerHigh`, and `surfaceContainerHighest`. These changes help
```

> deprecate the use of widgets' `surfaceTintColor`, and replace the old 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
eliminate the use of widgets' `surfaceTintColor`, and replace the old 
```

opacity-based model which applied a tinted overlay on top of surfaces based 
on their elevation.  

> The `surfaceTintColor` of widgets has been set to null and their background

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default `surfaceTintColor` for all widgets is now null and their default background
```

> color are replaced by the new tone-based surface colors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
color is now based on the new tone-based surface colors.
```

> `ColorScheme.fromSeed` has also been updated to use the latest algorithm in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ColorScheme.fromSeed` has also been updated to use the latest algorithm from the
```

Material color utilities package. This change prevent the constructed 
`ColorSchem` from being too bright, even if the source color looks bright and

> has a high chroma.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
had a high chroma (contained little black, white, and shades of grey).
```

## Migration guide

> The difference caused by the updated `ColorScheme.fromSeed` and the new color

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The differences caused by the updated `ColorScheme.fromSeed` method and the new color
```

> roles should be small and acceptable. However, when providing a brighter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
roles should be small. However, when providing a brighter
```

> source color to `ColorScheme.fromSeed`, it may constructs a relatively

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
seed color to `ColorScheme.fromSeed`, it may produce a relatively
```

darker version of `ColorScheme`. To force the output to still be bright, 

> set `schemeVariant: FromSeedVariant.fidelity` in `ColorScheme.fromSeed`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
set `schemeVariant: FromSeedVariant.fidelity` in `ColorScheme.fromSeed`. For example:
```

Author: Thanks a lot for all the suggestions! Just fixed them:)!

---
title: Introduce new `ColorScheme` roles for Material 3
description: >-
  `ColorScheme` introduces new color roles to better align with Material Design
  3. `ColorScheme.fromSeed` method is also updated to support the newly added
  colors.
---

## Summary

> New color roles in `ColorScheme` include seven tone-based surfaces and containers, alongside twelve accent color add-ons. This update deprecates three existing color roles: `background`, `onBackground`, and `surfaceVariant`. The `ColorScheme` constructed by the updated `ColorScheme.fromSeed` method now generates different values compared to the previous version, adapting to Material Design 3's guidelines.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
New color roles in `ColorScheme` include seven tone-based surfaces and containers, and twelve accent colors. This update deprecates three existing color roles: `background`, `onBackground`, and `surfaceVariant`. The `ColorScheme` constructed by the updated `ColorScheme.fromSeed` method now generates different values compared to the previous version, adapting to Material Design 3's guidelines.
```

## Background

The tone-based surface colors include: `surfaceBright`, `surfaceDim`,
`surfaceContainer`, `surfaceContainerLow`, `surfaceContainerLowest`,
`surfaceContainerHigh`, and `surfaceContainerHighest`. These changes help 
eliminate the use of widgets' `surfaceTintColor`, and replace the old 
opacity-based model which applied a tinted overlay on top of surfaces based 
on their elevation.  

The default `surfaceTintColor` for all widgets is now null and their default
background color is now based on the new tone-based surface colors.

`ColorScheme.fromSeed` has also been updated to use the latest algorithm from

> the Material color utilities package. This change prevent the constructed 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the Material color utilities package. This change prevents the constructed 
```

> `ColorSchem` from being too bright, even if the source color looks bright and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`ColorScheme` from being too bright, even if the source color looks bright and
```

had a high chroma (contained little black, white, and shades of grey).

## Migration guide

The differences caused by the updated `ColorScheme.fromSeed` and the new color
roles should be small and acceptable. However, when providing a brighter

> seed color to `ColorScheme.fromSeed`, it may constructs a relatively darker

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
seed color to `ColorScheme.fromSeed`, it may construct a relatively dark
```
